TestCase Sample for E-Commerce site

General Test Cases for Ecommerce Website

Check that users can navigate through all the products across different categories.
Check that all the links are redirecting to correct product/category pages, and none of the links is broken.
Check that the company logo is visible.
Check that all the text – product, category name, price, and product description are visible.
Check that all the images are clear and visible.
Check that category pages have a relevant product explicitly listed for the category.
Check that the correct count of total products is listed on the category pages.

Login Page Test Cases For Ecommerce Website

Check for proper validations on Login Page.
Check for an error message if Email, password, or any required field is left blank.
Check the validations on Email and password.
When you log in, check that you stay logged in as you browse products.
When the user doesn’t interact with the site for some time, will the session expire after some time? Make sure the user is logged out after the session times out.
When you are logged in, log out and make sure you are logged out and that you cannot access any of the accounts pages.

Home Page Functionality Test Cases

Check if the home page is displayed after a successful login.
Check if the user name is displayed on the homepage.
Check if the products are displayed on the home page.
Check if the search functionality is available on the home page.
Check if products on the home page are clickable.
Check if the products are displayed as categorized on the home page.
Check if the user profile is available on the home page or not.

Registration Page Ecommerce Website  Test Cases

Check that all the required fields are present on the registration page.
Check that the required/mandatory fields are marked with * against the field.
Check that for better user interface dropdowns, radio buttons and checkboxes, etc. fields are displayed wherever possible.
Check if the page has both submit and in some cases [cancel/reset] buttons at the end.
Check that on clicking the submit button after entering all the required fields, account is created succesfully.
Check that clicking cancel/reset button after entering all the required fields, cancels the submit request, and reset all the fields.
Check that not filling the mandatory fields and clicking the submit button will lead to the validation error.
Check the limit of the text boxes.
Check if the password field makes suggestions if the password strength is not strong.
Check validation of email fields (only valid email Ids should be allowed).
Check validation on numeric fields by entering alphabets and special characters.
Check that leading and trailing spaces are trimmed.
Check that entering blank spaces on mandatory fields lead to validation error.

Address Book Test Cases Of Ecommerce Website

Check Add New Address functionality.
Check Change Address functionality.
Check validations on Address Book Page.

Search Page Test Cases For Ecommerce Website

Check that the products displayed are related to what was searched for.
Check that the products should display an image, name, price.
Check the more relevant product for the search term is displayed on the top for a particular search term.
Check that count of products is correctly displayed on the search result page for a particular search term.
Check that filtering functionality correctly filters products based on the filter applied.
Check that filtering works correctly on the search result page.
Check that the correct count of total products is displayed after a filter is applied.
Check that all the sort options work correctly – correctly sort the products based on the sort option chosen.
Check that sorting works correctly on the search result page.
Check that sorting works correctly on the pages containing the filtered result, after applying filters.
Check that product count remains intact irrespective of the sorting option applied.

Wish list Page Test Cases

Verify that the added product is present on the wishlist page.
Check that Update of the wishlist is working correctly.
Check the Share wishlist functionality (if there is).
Check that user can add products to the cart from the wishlist page.

Product Details Page Test Cases

Verify Add to Cart should work correctly on the product tile.
Verify Actual product details with expected product details.
Check that a complete description of the product, including images, is appropriately shown.
Check that option to verify the availability of the product is present.
Check if users can rate, review the product.

Add to Cart Test Cases

Check the add to cart button is clickable.
Check whether the user is allowed to add products to the cart.
Check after Adding one item to the cart and verify.
Check on adding the new products into the cart and whether the count is increasing.
Check if the same item is added multiple times to the cart.
Check success message is displayed when a product is added to the cart successfully.
Check that the added item is displayed in the cart.
Check that the user is able to add products to his wishlist by clicking on the wishlist link.
Check after removing all items in the cart.
Check that the count is changing on adding or removing items from the cart.
Check that the user is allowed to delete the items in the cart.
Check that the success message is displayed when the item is deleted from the cart.
Check the sequence order of the items is as per the items are added to the cart.
Check if the user is allowed to check out multiple items from the cart.
Check Adding multiple items of different types and verify.
Check the amount of all added items is displaying correctly.
Check whether the amount is changing or not, your user added or remove items from the cart.
Check user is allowed to change the quantity of the added items in the cart.
Check the cart total when the inclusive tax is enabled from the admin end.
Check that the product details page is open when the user clicks on the product description on the checkout page.
Check that the UI of the add to cart is as per the requirement.

Orders Page Test Case

Check if order history is displayed on the My Order page.
Check if the user is able to change the order.
Check if the user is able to cancel the order.
Check if the user is able to track his order.
Check if the user is able to return his order.

Checkout Page Test Case

Check User can access the Checkout-Page only after adding the product to the cart
Check in the checkout page user can see all the details of the product like Name, Quantity, Amount, etc.
Check the checkout page after adding one item to the cart and close the browser. after reopening the same page the previously added item is displayed in the cart.
Check that the mandatory fields of the checkout address page are filled, the fields can be Name, Street Address, City, State, Country, Postal code.
Check error message is displaying when the user fills invalid input details in the mandatory fields.
Check if the back to cart button is available so that the user can modify the cart content as per his/her requirement.
Check error message is displayed or not when the user leaves the mandatory fields blank.
Check order price when gift and wrapping charges are applicable.
Check the shipping price.
Check the shipping price tax.
Check the payment options.
Check that the price of the cart is not discounted when we apply an invalid coupon.
Check on the click of the cancel button whether the data are deleted.
Check the mandatory fields of the payment page, fields such as Name on Card, Card Number, Expiration date, CVV.
Check error message is displayed when the invalid details are filled in the mandatory fields of the payment page.
Check error message is displaying when one mandatory field of the payment page is not filled.
Check that the user is redirected to the order page on successful order processing.
Check whether the order number is displaying or not on the thank you page of my order page.



